# Serverless ML Workshop

## Project Structure
**(TBD)**
 
This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders.

- app - Code for the application's Lambda function and Project Dockerfile.
- tests - Unit tests for the application code. 
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

The application uses several AWS resources, including Lambda functions and an API Gateway API. These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` file in this project. You can update the template to add AWS resources through the same deployment process that updates your application code.

## Pre-requisites

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches Lambda. It can also emulate your application's build environment and API.
The application template uses AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools.

* SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

You may need the following for local testing.
* [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

### Create Infrastructure
```bash
$ aws ecr create-repository --repository-name docker-lambda [--image-scanning-configuration scanOnPush=true]
```

### Build

1. Using Docker
```bash
$ docker build -t docker-lambda ./service
```
2. Using SAM
```bash
$ sam build
```
The SAM CLI builds a docker image from a Dockerfile and then installs dependencies defined in `hello_world/requirements.txt` inside the docker image. The processed template file is saved in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.


### Testing locally

1. Using Docker
```bash
$ docker run -p 8080:8080 docker-lambda

$ curl -XPOST "http://localhost:8080/2015-03-31/functions/function/invocations" -d '{"body": {"data": ".10"}}'
```
2. Using SAM
```bash
$ sam local start-api

$ curl -XPOST http://127.0.0.1:3000/classify -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"data":".10"}'
```
## Deployment

1. Using Docker
```bash
$ aws ecr get-login-password | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin xxxxxxxxxxxx.dkr.ecr.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com

$ docker push xxxxxxxxxxxx.dkr.ecr.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docker-lambda:latest
```

2. Using SAM
```bash
sam deploy --guided
```

## Add a resource to your application

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
$ sam logs -n HelloWorldFunction --stack-name untitled --tail
```

## Unit tests

Tests are defined in the `tests` folder in this project. Use PIP to install the [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) and run unit tests from your local machine.

```bash
$ pip install pytest pytest-mock --user
$ python -m pytest tests/ -v
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name untitled
```

## Resources
